Create 2021-04-22-frank-loeffler.md (#39)
USRSE/rse-stories: _posts/2021-04-22-frank-loeffler.md

---
layout: post
title: "It's a process"
author: "@pweschmidt"
rse: "Frank Loeffler"
excerpt: "Frank Loeffler is one of the founding members of the German RSE association. In this episode he takes us through the process to build a community more or less from scratch."
date: 2021-04-22 8:30:00
external_media: https://us-rse.org/rse-stories-episodes-1/2021/rse-stories-frank-loeffler-episode-57.mp3
length: 14399447
duration: "00:29:59"
explicit: "no"
resources:
  - name: Frank Loeffer's LinkedIn
    url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/frank-loeffler 
  - name: Heinz Nixdorf Chair and the University of Jena profile
    url: https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/members/frank-loffler/
  - name: DE RSE association
    url: https://de-rse.org/de/index.html
--- 

In this recording Frank takes us through the various stages - and challenges - that he and his RSE friends took to build the [German RSE association](https://de-rse.org/de/index.html).

> Like so many other RSE's, [Frank Loeffler's](https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/members/frank-loffler/) career began in science; physics to be precise. As such he worked in different research areas in and out of Germany. During a research assignment in the US (Louisiana State University), Frank attended the first RSE conference in Manchester, UK in 2016. This was a crucial moment. Frank met other likeminded colleagues from Germany all motivated to build a community there as well. In a period when the term "RSE" did not exist, becoming a research software engineer was a process, as Frank describes. Of course, many of this has changed in the meantime. In fact, Frank himself will be leading a team of RSEs at his university in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like so many other RSEs, [Frank Loeffler's](https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/members/frank-loffler/) career began in science; physics to be precise. As such he worked in different research areas in and out of Germany. During a research assignment in the US (Louisiana State University), Frank attended the first RSE conference in Manchester, UK in 2016. This was a crucial moment. Frank met other like-minded colleagues from Germany all motivated to build a community there as well. In a period when the term "RSE" did not exist, becoming a research software engineer was a process, as Frank describes. Of course, much of this has changed in the meantime. In fact, Frank himself will be leading a team of RSEs at his university in the near future.
```

---
layout: post
title: "It's a process"
author: "@pweschmidt"
rse: "Frank Loeffler"
excerpt: "Frank Loeffler is one of the founding members of the German RSE association. In this episode he takes us through the process to build a community more or less from scratch."
date: 2021-04-22 8:30:00
external_media: https://us-rse.org/rse-stories-episodes-1/2021/rse-stories-frank-loeffler-episode-57.mp3
length: 14399447
duration: "00:29:59"
explicit: "no"
resources:
  - name: Frank Loeffer's LinkedIn
    url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/frank-loeffler 
  - name: Heinz Nixdorf Chair and the University of Jena profile
    url: https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/members/frank-loffler/
  - name: DE RSE association
    url: https://de-rse.org/de/index.html

--- 
In this recording Frank takes us through the various stages - and challenges - that he and his RSE friends took to build the [German RSE association](https://de-rse.org/de/index.html).

> Like so many other RSE's, [Frank Loeffler's](https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/members/frank-loffler/) career began in science; physics to be precise. As such he worked in different research areas in and out of Germany. During a research assignment in the US (Louisiana State University), Frank attended the first RSE conference in Manchester, UK in 2016. This was a crucial moment. Frank met other likeminded colleagues from Germany all motivated to build a community there as well. In a period when the term "RSE" did not exist, becoming a research software engineer was a process, as Frank describes. Of course, many of this has changed in the meantime. In fact, Frank himself will be leading a team of RSEs at his university in the near future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like so many other RSE's, [Frank Loeffler's](https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/members/frank-loffler/) career began in science; physics to be precise. As such he worked in different research areas in and out of Germany. During a research assignment in the US (Louisiana State University), Frank attended the first RSE conference in Manchester, UK in 2016. This was a crucial moment. Frank met other likeminded colleagues from Germany all motivated to build a community there as well. In a period when the term "RSE" did not exist, becoming a research software engineer was a process, as Frank describes. Of course, much of this has changed in the meantime. In fact, Frank himself will be leading a team of RSEs at his university in the near future. 
```
